[Will Kennard.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/28189167/Will.Kennard.txt)[Anthony Barone.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/28189164/Anthony.Barone.txt)[Silvia Martin.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/28189162/Silvia.Martin.txt)[Zeeshan Yaseen.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/28189157/Zeeshan.Yaseen.txt)[Steve Toth.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/28189156/Steve.Toth.txt)[Ross hudgens.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/28189154/Ross.hudgens.txt)#Lily Ray
[Research:Youtube-Transcript:Lily-Ray.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/28189138/Research.Youtube-Transcript.Lily-Ray.txt)
hey there everyone this is Lily Ray and
I'm going to show you a new feature that
Google just rolled out yesterday in
Google Labs it's called sge while
browsing and sge stands for search
generative experience for anybody that
doesn't know this is something that
Google's been kind of testing in Google
labs for several months as far as
generating AI driven answers directly in
Google search results yesterday they
launched a new product here in Google
Labs called sge while browsing and it's
still in beta it's not fully available
to the public yet but if you do have
access to Google search Labs you do have
the option to enable sge while browsing
it requires that you update your Chrome
that took a couple of tries for me it's
a little bit of a weird experience to
update it but once you get it to work
you can then go within Chrome and
actually see this feature directly in
the sidebar of Google Chrome
so I'm going to show you how it works
here I'm in this backlinko page this is
an article about how to become an SEO
expert and once you've enabled this
feature you'll see this little Google
button in your sidebar so you can click
on that
and it's going to give you some new
features
that are basically using AI as well as
some Google other features that we're
all familiar with so
going to walk you through each of them
um number one we have key points from
the page and this is going to be
generative AI information about what
Google found on this page so you can
generate that
and you can think of us think of this
somewhat as like the way that Chachi BT
or Bard or one of these AI tools might
summarize the information that they
found on the page it's basically just
creating a bulleted list of all the
content on this page
and next we have explore on the page so
this enables you to jump to different
points of the page and Google will
actually use its scroll to text
highlighting to answer that question
what I think is interesting about this
part is that it's not using the
headlines that backlinko is using
verbatim it's actually kind of like
using AI to summarize information and
then create its own version of the
question and jump to the relevant part
of the page that answers that question
so this is blending a number of
different features that Google's had uh
with along with AI basically
next we have related searches so when
you Google things you're probably
familiar with seeing related searches uh
usually towards the bottom of the search
results and this is basically just
extrapolating like other relevant
questions people might have when you
click on these it's going to take you
directly to Google search results in the
sidebar of chrome so it doesn't take you
back to Google it just keeps you in this
Google Search browsing experience while
you're already on the page and if you
click on any of these it's going to take
you directly to that new page
and in this case it's keeping keeping
open you know the question that I asked
but another feature of this new uh sge
and chrome product is that you can go
back
and you can see at the bottom about the
source I think this is really
interesting because this is something
that Google's been working on for
probably about two years
and what about the source does you might
be familiar with this the recruiter in
Google search
you can click on these three dots and
you can see about this result
um and about the source so if you click
here you can do more about this page
this is where you're going to see about
the source
to me this is like eeat experience
expertise Authority and trust this is
what Google knows about ZipRecruiter
different reviews that have found around
the Web different third-party review
sites summaries in some cases it shows
like the Wikipedia biography of the page
how long it's been indexed on Google you
can actually get a lot of like
qualitative information about a site in
this view so Google's essentially just
lifting about the source and putting it
directly into this new sge feature when
you click on more about this page you'll
get the about the source information
directly in your sidebar and then what's
interesting is when you start to click
on different results
within Google Chrome or different pages
it's going to keep about the source open
and now it's going to switch to
whichever brand we're looking at so now
we're looking at consumer affairs so
it's important to pay attention to what
Google shows and about the source it has
been important but now it's even more
important so I've seen examples where
Google gets this information wrong
because it doesn't have enough
information about the brand or maybe the
brand shares a name with another brand
and if that brand has a bad reputation
that could potentially be reflected in
here so definitely go to Google and
start looking at you know about this
result about this Source because
this is potentially the future of how
people are going to be looking at at
your site
and that's pretty much it I think it's
just interesting that Google is
sort of creating its own version of FAQs
directly in this feature uh interesting
timing given that they just took away
FAQ schema or FAQ Rich results from us a
couple of a week or two ago so curious
timing but definitely play around with
this because this could
have a pretty big impact on how people
use Google and Google Chrome hope that
was helpful have a good one bye

#Kevin Indig
[Kevin Indig.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/28189143/Kevin.Indig.txt)
so moving on to artificial intelligence
then Kevin what are you doing with
regards to AI are you leveraging AI are
you trying your best to get any of your
clients or anything that you're doing to
be using Ai and using it to super boost
what you're
doing I leverage AI a lot actually and
it's interesting to see that more and
more clients are asking for AI generated
content or how can we leverage AI a lot
of times because their boards pressure
them to do something cool with AI so
there's a bit of hype in here as well
but I actually think there's a lot more
Foundation than most people think uh
just to mention a couple of examples
I've built AI generated programmatic SEO
um content for some clients um and I
think there's a sloppy way that usually
goes wrong and I think there's a a good
way to do it um can talk a bit more
about what good means um I'm also using
AI a lot in my data analysis or just um
kind of exploration so uh one of my
favorite tools these days is the GPT for
sheets and docs um Google integration
where you can bring um open AI models uh
like gbt 4 Z to your Google Sheets and
they do all sorts of crazy stuff extract
entities similarity scores between know
keywords URLs all sorts of fun things or
just custom proms which is incredibly
helpful uh so I'm using that a ton uh I
think the most one of the most basic
workflows is that I just go to chat GPT
and ask it to create reex formulas for
me or Google Sheets formulas that will
take me a long time but allow me to get
more out of Google Sheets and there
there's this whole world that I'm that
I'm spending a lot of time in right now
of AI workflows for where for example
you can um uh build a sequence where you
you punch in a keyword um then you it
will the tool will then scrape the
search results you can then filter out
certain uh results like say discussions
and forums then send the machine back to
scrape that content and then use llms to
do something with content so you know we
spoke about um or actually spoke with a
client about this earlier this morning
but things like FAQs or um you know
article summaries you can create that in
literally minutes right now at a pretty
high fidelity where humans are actually
less and less involved to get a good
product

#Aleyda Solís
[Aleyda Solis.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/28189149/Aleyda.Solis.txt)
Welcome back to Let's Chunk. You all
know the drill. Five questions, 15
seconds each. Short drops of pure
marketing insights suitable for anyone's
LLM strategy. For the record, again,
this is not an endorsement of an actual
LLM strategy called chunking. It's just
the name of a show, name of a show.
Blowing chunks of me today about PR,
digital PR is the queen of all the SEOs.
She is the founder Oriente SEO FOMO
newsletter. She speaks everywhere and
she does a ton for the SEO industry. You
already know her. It's Elena Solless.
>> Thank you. Thank you very much for
having me, Morty. I'm delighted to be
here and very eager to chunk
>> first. So, first of marketers going to
market. You're part of a brand new SAS
platform.
>> Indeed. I joined Dave Paris into
Finchling. Pinching is a tool that if
you're in digital PR, really need to
test that pretty much scans the news
cycle to highlight the relevant news
opportunities for your brands in order
for you to react. And we also have a new
feature that allows you to plan ahead
within a year to see any news
opportunities or topics or events that
you might want to leverage for your
digital PR campaigns as well. So yes,
like in an era in which mentions have so
much weight and importance like yes,
this I feel that this was a very natural
way to evolve what I what I do. Indeed,
>> it's it's awesome. I've looked at it.
It's super cool and you should all check
it out, which is why again we're talking
about digital PR and what the the heck
it actually is. So let's start off with
with a quick question of what the heck
even is digital PR now. digital PR now
honestly like the I have been speaking
to a lot of PRs lately to gather
opportunities uh functionalities to
validate ideas and and features of
Finchlane whenever I say digital PR PRs
that have actually started with PR that
are pure PR let's say they always say
digital PR this is PR only PR remove the
digital right however it's true it's
true that marketers who were might have
been very likely previously in SEO or
also content marketing or even link
building and evolve to be PRs or to do
PR online. They they are the ones who
call it digital PR indeed. But it's a
way to get pretty much your brand
stories out there to get coverage for
them to get mentions to get visibility
in a way that is actually very in line
with your unique slim positions with the
the values and of your brand and what
you brand actually does. So relevance is
is very very important and the
authoritiveness of the placement is also
very very important.
>> That's it's amazing because it used to
be like digital PR it's like link
building because of LLMs and the
importance of being visible and like you
mentioned being visible in the right
way. Digital PR now means something
completely um different which brings to
my next question which is more important
for LLM visibility your on-site content
or off-site content. Oh, both. Oh my
god. It depends.
>> It depends depends where you are in the
maturity uh level, right? If you are I
mean if your content is blocked, if your
content is is not render, if if if your
content is not well structured, it's not
relevant at all. It doesn't have
authority or seniors. It's not written
by an expert. It's not unique. It's not
citable. That is the base of everything.
So if you don't have that, it doesn't it
doesn't matter that you have a lot of
mentions, a lot of citations, third
party citations because you need to
refer to something that you own pretty
much in order to to make it work in
order to tie and to connect with your
actual customers and that happens on
your website. However, of course, if you
have the fundamentals covers already
covered, so yes, it's third party
citations in places that actually matter
that are actually aligned to what you do
and that refer to you and that mentions
you in a way that is consistent across
the web that is also aligned to what you
do indeed. So like it's like what we
usually used to talk about in SEO is
like the base like is technical content
and then links and now technical content
now mentions indeed.
>> Yeah. And it's it's amazing first off
like that we we're still debating is it
this or is it that it's everything and
the whole thing is a fight even you're
mentioned in LLMs they're going to find
your website at a certain point to check
you out and see where do you actually
buy I mean I'm assuming you're not on
Amazon or a lot of times on the actual
website so I don't know like I'm asking
the question tongue and cheek which one
is more important the answer is both
>> yes
>> but I want to ask you okay question
number three is how do you measure
success in digital PR what does that
look like
>> so yes it's coverage coverage not only
the volume of the coverage but the
importance of the coverage as well as
how many citations it gives you how much
traffic and and this is like I love that
you're asking this because this also
very tie of the complexity that we have
now with AI visibility as well is not
necessarily a performance only channel
but it's a branding only channel right
so we cannot only measure it like how
many mentions and how much traffic or
direct traffic does it refer is it uh
tied or correlated with a growth in AI
visibility or rankings. Well, it can
pounce as well, right? So what will be
important for us to understand is that
if it is connected with the way that we
want to be perceived on my hand if it
allows our brand to be accessed and view
by the audience that we really care
about that are really our customers
rather than raw generic matrix at the
end of the day
>> which is such a change for like the
performance world because I was talking
to someone on the brand side like
everyone's looking for volume volume
when it's on brand it's really about
alignment and quality and narrative.
narative and it's a whole new world for
us. I feel like
>> it's a different way to assess thing and
and not necessarily the way that we have
been taught to explain things and to
show value, right? And it's it's so much
more I I really think that we will we
are being pushed to learn a lot but
thankfully we are not the first having
to do that. Like there's a whole area in
marketing that is pretty used to
navigate and and use these sort of
metrics as well and sell well as well.
>> I've been joking about this forever. If
you've been running TV ads since the
1970s, this is not new. This is an old
problem. How do you measure the impact
of that ad? There's no exact metric and
you don't have you know exactly who's
watching and when they're watching and
what they're feel. It's not new
>> 100%.
>> Okay. So, what I really like the the
snarky question that I really wanted to
get to is um what kind of snake oil or
bad advice do you hear about LLMs and
digital PR that our audience should be
careful of?
>> My god. So,
>> it's a short answer. So like I don't
know where you want to start on that
one.
>> Okay. Still today I am seeing a lot of
people thinking that an easy way a very
low hanging fruit a very lowcape to
having to really tackle and and and
develop a real campaign a meaningful
campaign that requires a little bit of
understanding of the brand alignment
resources and yeah actual understanding
and involvement actual outreach to
journalists and it's pretty hard to
compete in order to get coverage. So
rather than having to do that, it's just
pretty much it's just pretty much faking
it with self- serving sort of top best
of type of list that don't necessarily
make sense. I think that this is what
unfortunately a a few thing can
compensate real good reputation, right?
Like you're also serving reputation.
your top best off list, whatever you do,
and then distributing it across many
websites that many times have zero real
value or relevance to your actual
customers and audience and industry. But
brute forcing that will make especially
now that we're in an AI very AI driven
sort of like first AI uh they will try
to influence like that the visibility of
your brand of certain personalities as
well to be perceived in a certain way
like that. There's so much on the
digital PR side like that. It's all like
automated, automated, automated,
automated, automated. Whereas, yeah, you
want to automate, you want to use AI as
much as possible to make things as easy
as possible. You can't artificially or
completely agentically build a
perception and a reputation and do PR or
digital PR completely agentically. That
seems bonkers to me.
Well, in fact, this is something that
again talking a lot with digital PRs, I
has come my way and I become aware of a
big issue in the industry is like
automation. All of these platforms that
promise to automate outreach for example
or the the pitches, the the whole
campaigns and at the end of the day is
about lack of uniqueness, lack of a real
angle of understanding of the actual
brand and then all of the spam that it
generates as well. Yeah, that that hits
a fan at a certain point and there's a
there's a limit to what you can
accomplish with that sort of kind of
brand building. Which brings my last
question before our bonus question. What
percentage of companies do you think are
actually doing the hard work?
>> What hard work? What of all of the hard
work?
>> The hard work of like building,
positioning, the leg work of running
actual digital PR in a real way that
drives quality mentions and are just not
just trying to drive performance in a
new way. I wish I could say most but
unfortunately I think that this is the
level of sophistication right and even
inside big companies and and I do
consult for a few of some of the top
companies in the world for SEO and now
also AI search and it's not that they
are not doing PR they are doing PR the
same with community management and
building right but now it has come the
time that even if they are doing it in a
very sophisticated way and they have
whole departments running it globally
etc and per country and per industry
that that they see the real need of
alignment. Many time is not that they
don't do it at all. They do it but they
are they are very split in silos. They
work in silos and SEO is still seen even
if these highlevel companies have a lot
of resources have running they have been
running SEO programs since I don't know
20 years ago it's still seen as a very
performanceoriented and and and
technical type of area in marketing. So,
and they talk potentially talk a lot
right now with PPC. Yes. And product
management. Yes. Less so with community
management and PR and now with AI search
that is fundamental. Right. So I believe
that the challenges are based on the
size and the level of sophistication of
the company for startups and small
companies. Unfortunately, if if this is
not a wellfunded startup and just small
company, unfortunately, PR might not
necessarily be the first thing because
of resources and effort. And then for
bigger companies in which you will
assume that it's a solve problem.
>> Yeah, there's a different problem.
Amazing, right?
>> They are split. They don't talk to each
other. They do it still in a very
traditional way. So, alignment is needed
and uh optimization and better support
is is needed in order to maximize the
impact. different challenges indeed and
the good part is that we're here to help
of course to close that gap and
hopefully that will mean better results
in general not only for AI search and
only for PR but for all the areas at the
end of the day
>> I'm totally with that if you're this
coming out in a few in a few weeks
actual recording of this like pull the
current behind the scenes but keep an
eye out on the SE ranking channels about
breaking those silos because we're going
to be talking a lot a lot about that and
it is a real problem okay so my bonus
question on a scale of one to And I ask
is every guest, how important with one
being least, 10 being most. How
important is the LL llms.txt file? I can
never get that out right.
>> Really, Morty? Minus a million.
>> A million.
>> I I gave it a two. It couldn't get any
lower. Minus a million is definitely
lower. That's awesome. go and better
check your robots txt the file that
actually actually crawlers should be
able to check or talk with your devops
and get access to your CDN dashboard in
order to hosting board in order to
understand all the accesses of AI bots
and what you are blocking and what you
are not and so on to better understand
that their their behavior with your
content indeed but uh but in general
unfortunately it's not because just
because googlers have mentioned that
they don't use that file potentially
they don't need need to use it because
at the end of the day they are the most
sophisticated search engine out there
right the the crawling system and all
they they don't need that at the end of
the day but but also I I I believe into
that that is sort of like a a patch in
any case at any point a mechanism that
was actually adopted by platforms but I
don't think that anybody will
necessarily endorse that or adopt that
at large because it doesn't necessarily
solve the real problem at scale and in
the long But it's just a work around. So
why just don't improve your crawling
systems in a different way, right? So
yeah, there there's that.
>> And on that note, Alita, where do people
find you and what newsletter should they
subscribe to?
>> Well, thank you very much for asking.
Well, they can find me in of course my
website alas.com. I'm very active also
in LinkedIn lately and and of course SEO
is my weekly newsletter with the latest
SEO and AI search news, jobs, events,
tools, whatever. I also have speaking of
um digital PR I have a new newsletter
since a few months ago that is called
trending campaigns at trending
campaigns.com the domain indeed and I
pretty much every week we highlight the
best campaigns the best digital
campaigns of the week for inspiration
and we explain why we believe they are
very deserving top campaigns on one hand
and then top three news opportunities of
those topics that could potentially
provide really good sources of topics
for trending campaigns for cool
campaigns that certain brands can
develop and we explain why and provide
also angles and examples as well. So if
you are in digital PR who want to learn
more in order to enhance and to expand
your SEO let's say visib visibility and
the ways that we understand what we do
as well. It's like we should learn more
about this and not only about this but
also about community management, social
media. I I believe that we're in this
search everywhere optimization era. So
it's it's important to have an
understanding a little bit of all of the
different platforms as well.
>> We're very much about that because we
have a social media platform called
Plannable and we very much believe in
the layers of the ecosystem of
correlating what's happening in search
happening in AI search what's happening
in social and traffic and on your site
all one picture together. And that means
thank you for spewing hot chunks with me
today. Don't forget to follow Elena on
all of her platforms and all of her
newsletters. Um, don't forget to look
out for new episodes of Let's Chunk each
Tuesday on the SE ranking social media
platforms like LinkedIn and on our
YouTube channel where you can see past
episodes and you can subscribe to get
notifications of new episodes of Let's
Chunk. So again, like and subscribe on
the SE Ranking YouTube channel. Goodbye
for now and until we chunk again.
>>
>> Ross Hudgens
[Uploading Ros
>> Hey there and welcome to another episode
of the Supermarketers Podcast where we
focus on how AI is impacting content.
And today we have Ross Hudins who is the
founder and CEO of Siege Media. Ross,
what's up?
>> Not much. Good to see you, not just on
the court.
>> Nice to see you,
>> Ross. Yeah, first I'll give you your
flowers. You are like you're a Warriors
fan. You're like a Draymond Green. You
are a presence on the defensive end and
you're a physical body and you might be
undersized, but you are becoming quite
the baller.
>> Well, I appreciate it. You lead the
league in steel, so I don't know what's
your equivalent on defense.
>> Yeah. All right. Mind you, for context,
this is all at the YMCA at 6 a.m.
>> Yeah.
>> But you are also a thought leader at the
forefront of AI, content generative
engine optimization, answer engine
optimization. So, I kind of wanted to
start there with your study of like
12,000 URLs, how the state of AI is
changing. It's kind of like that nobody
has the set answer. There is no set
answer. Things are changing. Google just
launched Gemini 3 this week. But what
are you seeing that people are maybe
getting wrong or where the where do you
see the puck going and the conversations
that like people might not be
understanding that you're understanding
from your perspective of data?
Definitely a lot of people paralyzed or
assuming chat GBT is going to be the
thing. I think it's starting to soften a
little bit of less of those people
thinking that. But that was a huge
generative first half of the year where
it's like we shouldn't even do SEO. We
should just do this AI thing and we saw
a lot of that. But in our data we saw
two things. One chat should be traffic's
flattening. Second, Google is still
actually growing. And I think that's
because largely we do have a mix of it's
worth noting our clients are large in
consumer and B2B. And of course,
consumer just generally has more visits
on average. So it probably slightly
dilutes it. I think more B2B people are
flat to down on average, but pipeline
from most of the people I talked to is
still potentially up. It's not
universally up, but it can be still
growing from what we're seeing. So
that's still optimistic about the future
of search, I think, is more of that. But
the how what kind of content we do is
seemingly shifting from pure answer
focus topfunnel to transactional medium
bottom funnel or yeah, middle bottom
funnel as well.
>> Yeah. So that's one thing that I did
want to talk to you about where you had
an interesting slide. So this is like
the overall traffic by content type,
right? So there's the guides and
playbooks were getting the most traffic
and I think you also had a subsequent
slide in terms of like the change year
over year or period over period.
Comparison slides were doing well, but
the stuff that wasn't doing well is
stuff that can be summarized or where
there is no information gain or
proprietary insights or perspectives.
But I'd love to hear your perspective
and you can elaborate on that.
Yeah, that's what I saw in our data and
that's correct. So, we essentially took
a sample of lots of different categories
in our set of around 200 websites that
we looked at and group them by URL slug.
So, extrapolating out certain types that
seemingly held up, somes that some that
didn't. The transactional ones, things
like pricing, costs, comparisons, even
trends held up decently well. I think
that's a lot of the AI conversation that
is getting people paying attention
pretty well to that. But exactly to your
point, the biggest loss was a lot of
like howto's,
what is content, things that you could
potentially get a single snippet from
sometimes and get enough and not need to
view the full website.
>> Yeah. So, what is the actionable
takeaway or the so what? So focus on
pricing pages, focus on comparison
pages, the interactive stuff like a
template or calculator, but we're
basically going more bottom offunnel
content.
>> Yes, exactly. Yeah. So more bottom
funnel. We saw a lift in case studies
too. I don't know. It was just like an
economic downturn thing, but seemingly
just engagement was up to case studies.
So maybe LLMs are referencing that more
often, but that is our action item for
clients for sure is embrace the bottom
funnel. If you're doing topfunnel or
middleunnel, it better be complex
topfunnel like multimodal. There's
images, maybe video. You're building
something that you can't summarize or
maybe it's complex enough. And normally
the data and like hrefs will will show
that from click-through rate curves
being still holding up, although we
can't like it's going to keep getting
cut down for sure.
>> So at Siege Media, one of your offerings
is content. So you're offering content
for enterprise B2B brands, enterprise B
TOC brands.
>> However, mark that with like pure AI
content is underperforming. At least
that's what your data was saying. So
yeah,
>> can you explain what your approach is to
incorporating AI and where in the
workflow you're actually like seeing AI
be effective?
>> Yeah, so we have a head of automation
now and he is helping with things like
keyword research, content refreshes. We
do have a workflow that suggests where
you can take uh value additive of data
information gain data and then have AI
suggest where that can be added on your
current content and then that can drive
more freshness on average. We call that
the data flywheel for ourselves. We do
give the team open floor to use it as a
sparring partner on certain articles. So
if they do want to actually feel like
this area is commoditized, I'd rather
have AI actually write this paragraph or
two, that's completely fine as long as
it enables them to spend their time more
fruitfully in other places. So it's a
lot of the edge. It's the ideation,
research, brainstorming. I think it's
allowing us to get much better sample
size of topics we could do. Like
previously, we could do like a hundred
topics in the time we had from clients.
And now we could potentially consider
like 400 and they're more on target
because you start with a new client in
B2B who's technical. It's hard to like
really know a super technical brand very
well. And and AI is pretty good at being
a little bit better than someone who
started one weekend for a new client in
terms of like precision on topic. It's
not perfect still, but it it's it is
supercharged the path a little at least
for us.
>> For sure. I want to dig into your your
head of automations or more specifically
identifying the keywords. So keyword
research whereas now it's changed,
right? And I'm using LLM visibility
trackers and you need to upload a set of
prompts. But the challenge of course is
like how do you actually come up with
those prompts? Do you use like your
keyword research and then extrapolate
out into a question or do you just have
an AI or an LLM based on the ICP come up
with the questions? Can you walk me
through your process of what you're
doing for keyword research and then how
you're actually tracking that LLM
visibility?
>> Yeah, I mean we there's a lot of good
trackers. We're using Peak currently.
Profound's good as well, but Peak is our
current choice. And one way we've
thought about prioritization
is you take so if you're most of your
listeners are in B2B like feature
solution pages and you would map like
what is the best project management
software or maybe it's what is the best
project management software for
family offices I don't know something
like that and then you create a version
of that how people would search your
prompt input it in a peak it returns a
list of source URLs and then within
those source URLs, there's often themes.
So, it's like you may find in a unique
way. Maybe it's like a comparison
article of like certain types of family
office project management things. Maybe
they call it something else. So, that
may pop up in a way that is not clear in
other industries and that may help us
prioritize that in our content roadmap.
Prompt volumes do exist. They're not
seemingly very accurate, but we're
liking that for for brainstorming on the
LLM side in particular. is using the
most source URLs within the prompts that
matter to our bottomfunnel transactional
pages and then considering that against
search data too if that makes sense.
>> That does. Yeah. And then you're just
tracking. Of course, you can't catch the
entire universe of prompts, but you're
just taking like your small section of
this and are you using it almost as a
directional guide? Like we are
increasing visibility based on what
we're identifying as important.
>> Yes. Yes. Exactly. So it's kind of where
is your baseline for visibility and then
aiming to improve that over time. I do
think that's most instructive because
yeah, even chat GBT traffic is
flattening and there's some people that
are saying that's just how they're
sourcing URLs. Maybe they're becoming
Google and sourcing URLs less, but also
maybe their traffic is their growth is
slowing down a little bit and maybe a
little both. But overall visibility,
also visibility on AI mode, I think is
critical because it feels like Gemini is
eventually going to become the default.
So we're using that's one of our default
LLMs of track within peak as well is
making sure AI mode like that seems like
actually the most important one in track
honestly because right if it becomes
default that's a problem if you haven't
been
>> for sure.
>> Yeah.
>> One of the things I wanted to ask you
about was this notion of data
journalism. So touching on what you're
talking about earlier like the types of
content that are defensible that will
continue to see traction and so it
touches on thought leadership
information gain or proprietary data but
what do you think makes this data
journalism a defensible moat for B2B
brands? Yeah, it's just in a world where
you can press a button and
hypothetically create content that's
solid, you need to have an answer as to
what we're doing uniquely us and data is
an answer to that. Of course, if
everyone starts doing data and it's the
same kind of study that maybe its own
conversation I am seeing a little bit
more of that which is its own like
probably next trend to discuss but it's
a great starting point when we see the
LLM data the studies from places like
Aerops that say data is getting
referenced more often in LLMs and of
course that's going to generate more
organic links which will help with
visibility. It also allows for justified
freshness. So we talked about that data
flywheel update process. If you do data
study every quarter on trends in your
industry, you can then update all your
other content with that new data. Now
you have a new date and LMS love new
content. A nice cycle that seemingly can
perpetuate and be fruitful.
>> Yeah. Now is there like a threshold of
end of whatever to make it seem like
enough? Because for example a few months
ago there was this kind of viral study
that 95% of enterprise AI studies fail
but if you the study that was or AI
implementations AI pilots and that was
based on I think 500 executives and I
think it came from MIT but if you look
at it it's really not that large of a
sample size nor if you're like you know
what is an AI pilot what's the
definition of that or what is it failure
or success but yeah how are are you
establishing the criteria of it because
wondering if it's defensible sure but
how do you actually make that investment
the time frame the cost the people
yeah good question tools we'll use
multiple different platforms for
collecting data so survey monkey
sediment yuggov are all platforms and
within those I know survey monkey in
particular does have a sample size
calculator so say I don't know that
study who they were sampling but let's
say they were sampling CMOs it's not
unreasonable. Like 500 sounds
statistically significant unfortunately.
You could there's definitely yeah it
could swing pretty dramatically just
because it is smaller but there's only
so many CMOs while if you were
interviewing maybe like HR professionals
it may be a little larger because it's a
bigger pool but that's part of the
consideration set for sure is like what
is the sample size to make that
valuable and of course there's cost
considerations like talking to CMOs is
quite expensive. So you often do want to
get to that at least bare minimum
ideally a little above it level of like
statistical significance otherwise it's
going to be really expensive
>> but most surveys will be like 3 to 6K
across industries honestly.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> And actually I do remember you did a
survey with Winter.
>> Yeah.
>> And it was executives and it was
interesting insights. So that's
something that Yeah.
>> We do that every year. We're working on
that now actually.
>> Great.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Awesome. So one of the things that you
shared in your presentation is this idea
that social is the new open web that it
is imperative almost for these brands
because it's not necessarily even the
backlinks but more so the visibility the
mentions and in these open communities
called Reddit YouTube LinkedIn u
>> so can you explain what the strategy is
if you are a resourced team and like you
need to balance all these priorities,
all these initiatives. How important is
it? What's the right approach and how do
you actually tactically execute on that?
>> Yeah, good question. So, the if you're
in B2B particular, LinkedIn is probably
your channel in particular, Reddit could
have some value as well, but probably
LinkedIn and what I saw and called out
in that presentation is that LinkedIn
overall visibility on search is ekking
up. And my bet or note in that
presentation, who knows if I end up
being right or not, is that it will
follow a similar path to what Reddit is
now in terms of just pretty strong
visibility across all searches. Because
it makes sense that if the open web is
having some attrition,
where's new content going to come from?
It's going to come from somewhere where
people are publishing. If LinkedIn is
the only place that people are like
reliably doing that at scale in
authentic fashion, that seems reasonable
they would pull from that. So for a
smaller company with limited resources,
I mean in if you feel comfortable
putting yourself out there from a
personal brand standpoint, that may be
worth investing in and maybe just
considering the secondary value you're
building and doing that is it's not just
the single post, but you could build
towards other things. I don't know. It's
yet at the point where I'm like thinking
about keywords when I'm writing a
LinkedIn post, but it's still not it
doesn't hurt. I'm definitely seeing when
I post on LinkedIn, it's less of a
immediate burst and there's like a long
tale of liking and commenting and some
of that may be search honestly. So, I
think that's worth considering. If
you're not a natural writer or doing
video clips or podcasts, there are tools
out there you can do. Obviously,
everyone's using AI. I don't necessarily
recommend that perfectly. You could do
things like upload videos like this and
I think sometimes it can be helpful.
Give it a deck you created, give it a
video, and if you're a natural like
talker, it may be good at like
extrapolating interesting things out.
I've heard of white label firms, they
become even more popular where they'll
interview you, transcreate that
transparently. I even tested that for a
little bit. I no longer do it. I don't
think it was a bad process. It just
wasn't we didn't make sense to move
forward with. But yeah, those are just
some of the things that I'd consider.
And obviously AI is scrappy and probably
the best path for a test for newer
leader thought leaders. Yeah, I do
remember Ran Fishkin from Spark Turo
mentioned and he was doing it on his own
name that Ran Fishkin CEO founder of
Spark to Toro whatever and then he had
his line and it's is the point the
takeaway of that was it was more about
repetition and also having that
consistency over time so that it was
almost like inculcating the LMS and so
it was on LinkedIn, it was on a speaker
bio, it was on a by line, it was always
the same. So maybe that's one way to do
it too. I completely agree. That's a
common thing of own places. Are you
defining your positioning correctly on
those? I think that's probably one of
the lowest hanging fruits for LLM
influence seemingly.
>> Yeah. And now let's talk about now if
you are considering you have limited
resources too, you don't always have to
create net new content, right? Like part
of it from your conversation with Josh
Bilker of AirOps is the value of a
content refresh. What have you seen with
the value of taking something that's
done well, maybe it's declining in terms
of ranking or LLM visibility? How are
you doing that? What have you seen?
What's your strategy and approach on
that?
>> Yeah. So, one benefit of one of the
things our director of automation built
was this analysis tool that will look at
the page one search results, compare it
to the client's update date, and you can
see that delta. So, if I'm like 300 days
older than the average search result
date, I probably should update that. So
that allowed us to know when to
prioritize topics against the pipeline
and sales they're generating for clients
and we'll will leverage that automation
in order. It's not even necessarily AI
driven although I there may be an AI
component to understand the many
different blogs have dates in many
different ways that informs the updates
and then we have new data from the data
journalism process we can do updates
much faster than we had previously. So
we will I do think generally having
something that is quite good for that
update is fruitful. I've seen
manipulative updates be done not very
significant. And that's where my mind
goes to with new data is like a just
authentically
if you add a decent amount of data
points like you've made enough change to
that article to justify the date update
and then in turn you get the benefit.
But if you are just like moving sections
around, I don't know that just feels
manipulative and I think at risk to
performance. So that's we still do full
refreshes but we are throwing in that
kind of faster cadence sometime often
recommending quarterly for some clients.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> So yeah nearing 2026 an inflection
point. so many flexure points with
answer engine optimization and whatever
but how are you approaching
content your content strategy where are
you seeing some overindex in ROI in
terms of like your marketing strategy or
what you're doing with brands in
particular B2B brands now
>> I mean it's you're hitting hitting a
dead horse here but the data journalism
piece I think is still quite fruitful I
I think it is risk-f free if you use it
correctly and version is not just to
build a data study but it's to use the
data everywhere. It's to repurpose it.
So if you have a data like we did that
trends report you mentioned seen from us
with Winter, we use we have that those
data points on almost every single
article on our website from just one
study. So even if that cost you $10,000
to get that data that's and you only do
that once a year and that's probably
worthwhile to a content marketing
strategy. So that's going quite far I
think and then it can drive update value
and of course bottomfunnel comparison
articles versus articles they're just
still performing quite well for clients
and I expect they will for a good period
of time. Those are the two that that
scream at me from your question.
>> Nice. So, I'd like to close out just to
learn more about how you personally or
you've mentioned your head of automation
a couple times. Some really cool use
cases, but how are you as a marketer
using AI and finding value in it?
>> Yeah, our head of automation for sure is
the one we're leaning into. We're
building our own tools and analysis.
Personally, I'm probably like most
people and continually prompting chat
GBT or now Gemini Pro with lots of
different questions in terms of my
workflow, but thinking constantly about
how we can improve our own workflow and
process and building that tool set is
something I think everyone's got to do.
That maybe may might not be the most
helpful note of all time, but thinking
about all those edge areas that we waste
time and using it accordingly with AI is
how we're doing it. Yeah, I would say
the way you were discussing that winter
case study is just like chunking it up
into all the different angles that you
could take from it and then just upload
it into your knowledge base and then
yeah, it's like that is just the
resource that we'll keep on giving for
the next year until you get the
refreshed updated data. That sounds
super valuable.
>> Agreed.
>> Ross, thanks so much. I really
appreciate the the insights and the
expertise that you shared. What's the
best place to find you online? the stay
on theme LinkedIn.
>> All right.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Ross Hudgins. Yeah. Sorry, Ross.
I'm on X as well. And yeah, we have data
studies on our our learn section. If you
look at our drop down on Siege Media,
we're public. We're practicing what
we're preaching. Hopefully, some of your
listeners will find those valuable, too.
>> Fantastic. Ross, thanks so much.
>> Yeah, thanks for having me.s hudgens.txt…]()
>>
>> Steve Toth
>> [Uploadyou've scaled sites to millions of
visits. What's a go-to framework for
deciding which opportunities to chase
and which to kill? All right, so uh this
advice probably has changed over the
years. But um currently uh whereas in
the past like let's say we just go after
search volume tangentially related
content and you know whatever we can do
to ramp up huge traffic across a site,
acrew a bunch of links and then have
that benefit the money pages. I think,
you know, since the advent of AI
overviews, a lot of that is uh no longer
a viable strategy strategy to just go
after content, generate a lot of links,
you know, used to be able to get
newsletter subscribers from that kind of
stuff, too. So, right now, what we're
really looking at is focusing on pages
where um the visitor has a propensity to
convert. So it that's kind of our
heristic that we look at when creating
content for websites now is that what we
have to realize is that there's always
going to be dozens if not hundreds of
relevant web pages that are waiting to
take your results and that if you're
Google you're much likely to want to
show a a site that is relevant in
addition to just a page that is
relevant. So when we decide what to
create and what to kill, uh we're really
looking at um pages where there is a
chance that that user is going to
convert. And what we'd rather see is a
site with a small number of highv value
pages versus a site with a lot of pages
and its value spread over stuff that's
not going to convert. As a business
owner, how do you make sure your
strategy actually gets executed without
just doing it yourself?
>> That's a great question. I mean I work
with a team. So um the way that you know
we communicate we we meet regularly. Uh
but we also follow processes right. So
anything that we do within our agency
gets documented in notion and then you
know we're either automating that the
next time that we do that or when we
have a challenge we're asking claude you
know specifically how has our team
solved those issues in the past. So with
the connection from notion to claude uh
we can draw upon all of our previous
experience and you know sometimes when
you're dealing with a team member and
they feel like a task is so daunting it
is really hard for them to you know
follow instructions to a tea. uh but
when we have empowered our team with you
know that history of all that project
management work within notion the
history of the documented notes and SOPs
in notion following those instructions
becomes a lot less daunting because the
information they can access is so easily
accessible. So basically we encourage
our team to leverage claude fully but
really leverage its connection with all
the documentation we have in notion
with AI changing search. Do you still
recommend new SEOs specialize after a
few years or has the game shifted?
>> Well, I still think that SEO is the
foundation of AEO or GEO or whatever
acronym you want to call it. Or if you
want to call it just SEO, then I
encourage you to think about the
differences in user behavior. Think
about the differences in the types of
pages that surface in AI search results.
think about the different levers that
you have to pull um to get into AI
search results like waiting the
difference between links and mentions
and PR and things like that. Um, so I I
still think that, you know, if you look
at the SEO industry historically,
there's been a small number of people
who have been able to last throughout
the decades and there's a lot of people
that come and go and uh the folks that
have been able to endure this are the
ones who are highly specialized. Um, for
example, I've never once taken a Google
Ads course. I know that the search terms
report is something that I want to
leverage, but um you know, I have no
interest in in paid um uh Google ads. Um
I'm 100% allin on SEO. And I think that
to remain relevant and to really be, you
know, on the bleeding edge, have your
finger on the pulse, there's really um
you know, nothing else that should
distract you. But at the same time, you
have to now keep pace with not only the
changes in algorithms and what happens
on the SERs, but also with how LLM's
evolving, how rag technology works. So,
it's uh there's I I say yes, be
specialized, but understand that your
scope of specialization is probably
broadened, but it should remain focused
on organic acquisition versus trying to
get into paid. what actually works for
links in 2026 and what's a total waste
of money?
>> Well, I'd say that you know getting
sites on these like magazine or getting
links on these like type magazine type
sites where sites don't have a clear
business model or seem to just you know
have um
for purchase links only. anything that
has, you know, a guest post submission
site. I think those are quite obviously
um not the types of links that you want
to build. Um I would focus instead on
sites with an actual business model. Um
you know, sites that uh are also going
to look good for your clients as well. I
mean, I think there's
um it all obviously depends on who you
work with and what type of site you're,
you know, in it for the long haul versus
the short haul. But for the types of
clients that we work with, we generally
are aiming for links on uh you know,
page relevant, if not site relevant
websites um that are real brands with
real search volume and uh and not just
link form. So, I mean, that one's kind
of an easy one, but um for at least the
kind of stuff that we do, we want, you
know, actual real sites.
>> You built your brand while still at
FreshBooks. What's one underrated step
most people skip while trying to do the
same?
>> Well, I mean, when I was at Freshbooks,
um we were having a lot of success with
SEO and um I did definitely leverage
that for my personal brand. Um, you
know, I think you got if you're if
you're full-time employed by somebody,
you've got to give it your all for them.
And if you have the goal of becoming a
freelancer and all that stuff, you got
to separate that from the work that you
do. Um, for me, I attribute a lot of my
early success to that huge up into the
right craft that we were able to achieve
for Fresh Books. And I don't think that
without my really hard work and our
team's hard work on that site that you
know I would have had the credibility
that you know essentially catapulted my
freelance career. Um but I think that um
you know understanding that uh having a
plan um you know my plan was to
basically save a full year salary um
from freelancing before I left my
full-time job. And I don't think enough
people do that because when you don't do
that, you're kind of put under the gun.
Whereas, like, you know, in terms of the
types of clients that you work with, for
me, since I had that nest egg, um, I was
able to say no to lower ticket clients
and only focus on higher ticket clients
because I had that um, you know, backup
plan, right? And um and I was already
attracting those types of clients by the
time that I left that, you know, my at
the time my minimum was 5K and I was
able to, you know, stay there and not go
below that and, you know, since then
it's only gone up.
>> What's one hard lesson you learned from
a big mistake on a large site?
>> Well, my my probably the worst thing
that I did at FreshBooks was um we had a
a Google business profile. It was Google
My Business at the time and um the the
optics on it work great. I mean, you
know, you tend to attract the people who
are not happy with your business and at
the time I not being uh that deep into
local SEO. I I decided to uh delete the
listing and um it just went back to the
previous address and then we had to like
go and verify it there. And then like
the the running joke was that it was
going to originate back to the basement
that Fresh Books was coded in. So we had
to reinstate the profile. We had to
build our reviews from scratch, which
you know local like that. First of all,
FreshBooks should have never had a
Google business profile in the first
place. And I was just trying to get rid
of it. But what I didn't realize at the
time was that it just would go back to
the old address and then if you got rid
of that, it would go back to the
previous address. So, you know, people
were trying to figure out how to get to
Fresh Books for a job interview and like
not able to go. So, it was actually I
phoned up Joy Hawkins at the time and
she she helped me through navigate some
of that stuff and we ended up getting
our Google business profile back, but
the point is that we never should have
had one in the first place. Um, you
know, I inherited that. I was trying to
kind of solve for it, but uh yeah, that
was a bit of a bit of an F up, but yeah,
I learned my lesson there. Uh this is
Steve Toth of AI Notebook and SEO
Notebook. If you want to connect with
me, those are two great sites where I
ship a weekly newsletter for each. Um
one is focused on SEO strategy and the
other is focused strictly on AEO
strategy. And then yeah, I'm on LinkedIn
and uh check me out on those socials.
Thanks.ing Steve Toth.txt…]()
>>
#Zeeshan Yaseen
[UploadinWelcome to Global Economic Press, where
we deliver trusted global finance and
economic news, analysis, and reports,
empowering leaders and investors with
reliable, timely insights.
I'm your host, Alex Brady.
In today's episode, we delve into the
world of AI search optimization and the
groundbreaking achievements of Z Shah
Yasin, a leading figure in the field of
large language model SEO. Stay tuned as
we explore how Z Shah is redefining
digital discovery and setting new
standards for AI brand mentions in 2026.
Z Nos proudly announces a major
milestone for its founder and lead
strategist, Z Shah Yasin.
Recently recognized as a best large
language model SEO expert for 2026,
Z Shah is redefining how brands achieve
visibility in modern large language
model results and digital discovery.
Leading marketing platforms provide
strong proof of his expertise this year.
Doc Digital SEM featured Z Shah as a top
large language model SEO specialist for
his skill in building content that AI
tools can easily suggest.
SEO Sandwich also named him the best
large language model SEO expert for 2026
because of his focus on long-term
organic growth.
Meanwhile, Indeed SEO recognized his
work in semantic SEO and how he helps
brand data appear effectively in direct
AI answers.
Other industry platforms like AAA Review
and Get ProLinks also highlighted his
success in the field. These recognitions
across multiple industry platforms
highlight Z Nos' growing authority in AI
search optimization and large language
model driven SEO.
Z Shah Yasin defines new standards for
AI brand mentions in 2026. Search
results are expected to be completely
different today than a few years ago.
Most people today look for quick AI
summaries. They rarely click through 10
different links anymore.
This shift in how we use the internet
has forced brands to fix their online
presence fast.
Zeeshan Yaseen built his name by solving
this specific problem. He works in a
field called generative engine
optimization. His strategies ensure that
when a user enters a query, AI models
like ChatGPT and Gemini naturally
mention and suggest specific brands as
top recommendations.
AI does not just crawl the web. It
prioritizes credible editorial content
from trusted sources, said Zeeshan
Yaseen, CEO of Zenos. We do not just
promise visibility. We engineer your
brand to be seen by AI automatically.
The global marketing world noticed his
impact. As the best large language model
SEO expert, Zeeshan Yaseen makes sure AI
models actually trust the brand data
they find. His technical steps focus on
real authority rather than just simple
tricks. Industry leaders endorse Zeeshan
Yaseen's approach. Global industry
analysis has positioned Zeeshan Yaseen
as the premier authority in the current
search market. A recent review by AAA
Review ranked him at the number one spot
among the top large language model SEO
experts for 2026, placing him ahead of
world-renowned figures like Lily Ray and
Rand Fishkin. The publication
specifically recognized him for his
expertise in generative search
visibility and large language model
ranking strategy.
The report highlights Zeeshan's ability
to blend advanced SEO with a deep
understanding of how language models
interpret data, helping brands succeed
within conversational interfaces.
Further validation comes from Get Pro
Links, which also ranked Zenos as the
top specialist for large language model
visibility and authority.
The report focused on Zeeshan's unique
methodology, which combines digital
public relations with entity
optimization and knowledge graph
alignment.
Zeeshan Yaseen's approach is
specifically designed for brands to seek
number one status in AI citations and
large language model rankings.
The global recognition confirms that
Zeeshan Yaseen is leading the industry
shift, providing the strategic framework
necessary for brands to dominate the
future of generative search.
Zeeshan Yaseen leads industry
shift toward AI search leadership.
Online business success now depends on
how a large language model SEO
specialist maps out a company's real
value.
AI models look for solid facts and clear
ties between different data points.
Zeeshan Yaseen uses a unique mapping
system to make sure these machines see
his clients as the top experts in their
field.
His strategy has helped dozens of firms
get featured directly within
AI-generated conversations.
Instead of just being a link at the
bottom, these brands now appear as the
primary names that AI engines suggest to
users seeking solutions. While many
businesses continue to rely on
traditional SEO, a savvy large language
model SEO consultant knows that user
search behavior is evolving.
With tools like ChatGPT, which now has
over 200 million daily users and
processes more than 2.5 billion queries
each day,
it is clear that people are increasingly
favoring concise, immediate answers.
This shift is reshaping the way
information is searched for and consumed
online.
In the 2026 market, working with a
qualified AI visibility expert has
shifted from a competitive advantage to
a basic requirement. Brands without a
clear AI search strategy are quietly
losing ground, even the well-known ones.
Zeeshan Yaseen solves this problem by
shaping brand data into meaningful,
trustworthy narratives that earn
recognition from both audiences and AI
systems,
establishing him as a vital large
language model SEO expert for
forward-thinking companies around the
world. About Zeno, Zeno's is a large
language model SEO agency specializing
in AI-first search strategies. The team
helps brands expand their reach on new
generative search engines through
advanced technical expertise.
Led by Zeeshan Yasin, the agency
provides innovative solutions to global
companies in e-commerce, technology, and
software as a service industries,
helping them succeed in a rapidly
evolving digital landscape.g Zeeshan Yaseen.txt…]()

#Gerry White
[Gerry White.c.txt](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/28189160/Gerry.White.c.txt)
hi I'm Jerry white and this is SEO in
2023 additional insights
Jerry what's your additional insight for
SEO in 2023
so I think the main Insight that I've
got for 2023 is basically almost a
continuation of what we've been talking
about for the past couple of years
there's so much shiny and exciting stuff
around but I think one of the things
that we need to really focus on is some
of the basics what I mean by that is
that the one thing that kind of we've
been looking at for a long time but
we've been talking about it for a long
time but it seems to get escaped in the
kind of the focus of a lot of
organizations at the moment and that's
basically entities it doesn't matter if
you're working on e-commerce it doesn't
matter if you're working on content it
doesn't matter what type of site you're
working on focusing on kind of like the
entities and how everything kind of
works together and being more topical
than ever before is definitely something
I think a lot of companies fail to focus
on when you're kind of talking about
internal linking when you're talking
about how everything kind of gets set up
when you're talking about how how your
entire site is put together it feels
like this is the one area that is so
critical and yet so often overlooked
across all different sort of factors
so why do you describe entities as the
most critical thing because I would
imagine that most seos would probably
not pick entities as the most critical
thing
well the reason I kind of say this is
the fact that it's one of those key
Basics what I the way in which Google's
been working for a long time and the way
in which Google's been evolving is very
much if you do a search for something we
don't get 10 Blue Links anymore what we
get is kind of a a representation of
what Google interprets your query to be
and it kind of understands far more
about
objects and how everything's linked
together than ever before and that's
actually the way in which the search
results look I mean if you look at the
way in which search results were
evolving nowadays we're getting kind of
more different drill Downs where I mean
a good example is something that I was
looking at a couple of days ago where
when you do a search for something as
simple as a lasagna it actually suggests
at the top do you want to look at a
vegetable lasagna but you want to look
at high protein do you want to look at
quick cook and it starts to kind of go
we understand that you're looking at
lasagna and these are all the different
ways that you can look at lasagna I've
been working on a recipe website for the
past year as much as anything it's it's
a e-commerce website but a key part of
it has been recipes I'm trying to
understand the fact that you know it's
not just the recipes but it's the way in
which the recipes are made up of
ingredients and these ingredients then
link through to the product pages which
is what we want people to start to go
through to and so everything kind of
linking together means that Google can
has this incredible understanding not
just of your site but of the products
within the sign and then if somebody
says actually what I'm looking for is
this particular products in stock that's
available to be delivered Google knows
that you're a store that delivers this
particular product that it's in stock
and it's available to be delivered we've
been marking up our Pages for a long
time with things like Json which allows
us to kind of say this is a product and
this is in stock and this is the price
but Google's kind of learning a lot
about this kind of thing is it's kind of
knowing that you know these 20 different
websites have this product and if if you
can prove that you're one of those 20
that sells online and somebody wants to
buy something online that's exactly why
you will rank much better and again
Google's kind of learning all the
information relationships about things
so it's kind of understanding not just
what a product is but the alternatives
to it if you're looking for a particular
Advent calendar Google knows that you
know there are two or three other Advent
calendars as if the um the particular
Advent calendar you're looking for is
out of stock this has kind of come to
mind because a couple of the Advent
calendars that have been driving a lot
of search traffic this year are
amazingly are no longer produced by the
companies and so we're trying to
persuade people to buy the other one the
Oreo one instead of the I don't know I'm
trying to think of the example but yeah
it's funny you mentioning lasagna there
as well because I remember about 10
years ago actually delivering some SEO
101 training and um I asked everyone the
question how do you spell lasagna and
some people spell lasagna with a some
people spell losanya with E and um so
everyone was telling me you know no it's
spelled with an a you know it spelled
with an e and and I went no the correct
answer is it depends on how much keyword
search volume there is for the a version
or the e-version however that was 10
years ago or so and and spelling really
doesn't matter as much now
hope you say that however I've just been
looking so I'm actually cooking for a
couple of friends on Christmas and one
of the things I was looking for was a
big pot and it turns out these big pots
I'm not a cook so I don't know what I'm
talking about but people are looking for
a stock pot and it's interesting on the
Argos website if you have a space
between pot and not pot then it actually
has quite different results I've been
using another example of the fact that
gray can be spelled with an e or an A in
different occasions and many websites
actually will have different results
according to how you spell certain words
even when they can be commonly known so
like I say the stock part on the Argos
website is a great example of why you
kind of need to have not just
consistency but you either have to have
consistency and something which kind of
goes okay we know you're looking for
this but this is also the same kind of
search results and it's it's it's
something which is is very interesting
actually but Google Google doesn't
really worry about spelling too much if
you type in stockpot it kind of gives
you totally totally the same results no
matter whether you've used a space or of
space a lot of the time for a lot of
keywords Google kind of goes this and
this are exactly the same search results
so whilst it doesn't matter for Google
doesn't really matter for SEO it does
matter for kind of on-site search as
much as anything so yeah it's a great
example it's certainly a wormhole that
many seos can go down but um you also
talk about targeting your strategy to
entities and things rather than pages so
what does that mean in practice when it
comes to publishing new pages in your
site and how do those new pages relate
to your entity
yeah so a good example there is the fact
that we've been integrating a CMS and
one of the things that I wanted us to do
is very much Focus the CMS around not
looking at users and and sorry not
looking at kind of the web pages but
basically looking at what the formatic
was and the reason for this is to kind
of make sure that we had things like
hierarchies and other bits of pieces is
it a seasonal page and one of my pet
hates in terms of of publishing to a
website is this kind of concept that
every Christmas we have another 10 set
of web pages that we totally ignore in a
year's time we don't kind of go revisit
them and revise them and so this kind of
Evergreen approach is often left by lots
of big e-commerce organizations I mean
if you look on many many different big
websites you'll often find they've got
20 versions of the Black Friday sale
they'll often have like a year
identifier in it and this just is
terrible so basically if you're kind of
talking about like the Black Friday sale
you have one page you have one place for
it one URL so so you kind of start to
kind of go okay this is the Black Friday
sale page and all of the products that
kind of live within it you know they
make sure they stay in the same place
they don't move into that Black Friday
sale and then move out again so it's
kind of understanding the relationships
as much as anything else and it's not
moving things around because suddenly
it's in a sale we had one website that I
was working when I was at rise at seven
and every time something went onto a
sale page suddenly the canonical of it
moved over and it became a sale product
for two or three months or however long
it was and it was just such a weird
thing to find that Pages were moving
around all the time internal linking was
a weird situation I mean yes they did
have three ones everywhere and
everything else was correct but the kind
of the the value that was lost by kind
of not understanding the fact that you
know entities and pages should basically
have a kind of very fixed kind of
relationship rather than necessarily a
kind of a everything moving around all
the time and I think that basically
understanding what a web page is about
is so critical to Google and not
necessarily worrying as much about what
the actual URL is because that is
something which Google Google doesn't
really care as much about the URL it
cares about what the page actually is
and the internal linking and the
structure and everything else is so much
more important as long as you have a
good URL strategy that's consistent and
doesn't change all the time
you mentioned internal linking there and
you say that an entity an entity can be
fully enhanced with multimedia and
internal linking so multimedia for
example I mean how does that actually
impact the understanding of your entity
I mean video in itself can be a separate
entity so for instance you can say that
you know within this page about
um say a clock radio that's a really bad
example number buys clock radios anymore
but you know what I mean basically this
clock radio has a video on it and that
in itself is kind of a a media thing
attached to it and so particularly when
you're kind of talking about the newer
better cms's where you kind of go okay
this particular video is attached to
this page which is about this product so
you can start to kind of build out those
sort of relationships within it I'm I'm
talking about the latest headless cms's
I'm talking about all sorts of kind of
technology and one of the things that
I've sort of sat down with a lot of the
team basically is talking to them about
the fact that we don't we want to look
at kind of subjects and then we want to
make sure that multimedia is attached to
the subject and so we kind of understand
this is almost from a back end point of
view so we kind of go okay when we're
building up the page we know this
product this image is attached to this
product and so on and so forth It's hard
to kind of describe but basically I've
got a massive whiteboard in in an office
is somewhere basically explaining all of
these kind of principles where we sort
of talk about the fact that you know we
don't want any video to be lost almost
within the system we want to make sure
all the videos are there and associated
with the right thing a great example of
that is the fact that one of the
products that we don't really talk about
at the supermarket I've been working for
for the past year we the the actual box
that it gets delivered in we wanted to
make sure that this was actually such a
thing that we actually had videos on how
you can reuse the Box how it's folded
How It's Made how it's everything
because it became such a functional part
of it the sustainability part of the the
website that I was working on that this
this simple thing like a box that we
made sure that we had the videos and
everything so as soon as you searched
for the supermarket odor and the the box
that the products came in you'd get the
videos you'd get the pages you'd get
this Carousel at the top because it
became such an entity within itself and
you know this was something that was
already kind of in existence but we made
sure that it worked effectively much
better and we got a lot of projects
going on where they're growing into both
Finland and Germany to make sure that
this kind of this project continues in
the same way that it has done
and how do you optimize the use of
internal linking to give
a search engine greater confidence in
what your entity is
again it's very much around consistent
linking there was a fantastic article
basically by the mail online well it
wasn't by the mail online but it was an
SEO article talking about how the mail
online used this Hub and spoke approach
it kind of used this approach to say
actually whenever we talk about a
football team we always link to this
particular page whenever we talk about a
you know the the trying to get the
example but basically whenever we're
talking about a particular topic we
always link through to this particular
page so it's consistent internal linking
both up and down so for instance you
know if we talk I worked on a political
website at one point and we made sure
that whenever we talked about the budget
this was the page we always linked to we
never linked through to the the 2020
version of the budget we always willing
through to the canonical budget page and
that one was always updated with the
latest articles and other bits and
pieces this kind of gave you kind of an
understanding of the fact that you know
we'd have one place where everything
would link up to and that page would
link down to everything this kind of Hub
and spoke thing works great incredibly
well there's nothing wrong with sort of
the Cross linking as well and that works
really effectively but it was kind of
making sure that links were consistent
to the best possible page for the best
possible user experience I mean we
there's a lot of people out there kind
of saying you know you almost kind of
have to ignore the search engines but
you don't you have to kind of understand
that the search engines want to
understand where the right Pages for the
right things are and it will kind of
work really effectively for them and the
more you use this kind of Hub and spoke
approach to kind of understand the way
in which an entity links and works for
the rest of the site the more Google
will kind of go this website is about
this these particular pages about that
and then all the pages that are linked
to will kind of get a boost from it and
we've seen this time and time again
where Google kind of goes Yep this is
actually the best example of information
about this topic and these pages of it
are kind of related to it and you'll see
almost Google kind of treating sites
with insights being kind of a key thing
I mean a good example of that is the BBC
for instance you know it treats iPlayer
it treats BBC News it treats the sport
it treats all of these Pages as kind of
websites within a site itself and I
think that's always absolutely critical
and Justine and internal link building
for a second actually automation can be
a fairly powerful tool for the building
of internal links but um done badly it
can obviously be giving Google bad
information so what's an example of good
automation for internal linking
I mean we've all seen things like end
links as well which I know you've spoken
to a couple of times Dixon's kind of
tools anything which kind of goes okay
these are the entities within the page
these is how it should link across now
the biggest problem that I've seen with
a lot of this kind of automation isn't
so much the fact that it works very
effectively it's it's making sure that
Google can see it often it's injected
using JavaScript in a way that Google
struggles to read so it's making sure
it's done right the other side of it is
I've seen it where it's almost designed
for
we've seen related products related
links and all sorts of other bits of
pieces where the the internal linking
has been generated in such a way that
it's not going through to a canonical
link and it's often kind of putting on
parameters it's putting on all sorts of
interesting bits and pieces because
whoever built the tool to kind of
provide the internal linking isn't the
same person that kind of worked with the
SEO team and frequently the tools that
we have to kind of crawl sites ourselves
don't execute or don't read the
JavaScript in the same way that Google
would and so we often find that there's
missing links that when we manually go
back and check the pages they're there
but they're kind of pulled in using
tools tools are so so good and you kind
of want to make sure that all of the
links are done in such a way that Google
can always read it now we know Google
can read JavaScript incredibly well most
of the time but we often do find that
when we kind of look at this from Google
we often find that Google hasn't
actually read the JavaScript or it's
misread the JavaScript because of the
way in which being put in after the page
has been loaded in such a way so massive
fan of automation massive fan of sort of
scaling but the one thing that needs
every single time is testing so every
time you do it make sure it's tested and
do not have things like UTM parameters
on it because that actually breaks
analytics and it breaks user Journeys
and it confuses Google so anytime that
there's a parameter that doesn't need to
be there remove it especially for search
engines
so you've shown what SEO should be doing
in 2023 tonight let's talk about where
SEO shouldn't be doing so what's
something that's seductive in terms of
time but ultimately counterproductive
for something that SEO shouldn't be
doing in 2023
I kind of loved playing around I'm the
first person to kind of go and and
experiment with something I mean behind
me over there that I've got one of those
Oculus quests and I'll spend a lot of
time in VR and doing all sorts of bits
and pieces but I do find that a lot of
the time people are kind of going oh
look this is a very shiny new thing to
do and without the resources without the
dedication they skip out on the basics
do not skip out on the basics I go to so
many conferences where people are
talking about something shiny new and
exciting and I go home and I play and do
everything but honestly I spend probably
40 to 50 of my time working on key
Basics making sure things like XML site
maps are actually correct making sure
that the href Lang is properly going to
valid pages and so basically I think the
biggest kind of the biggest attraction
right now is things like can I scale a
Bai can I do something like that and
then they skip out on kind of not doing
some of the core Basics which is
internal linking and all of those bits
and pieces that we've been covering so
far I'm a massive fan of making sure
that those core Basics the the low
hanging fruits the I'm trying to go for
the brilliant Basics are all kind of
completely in place before I do anything
exciting although that said sometimes I
think we don't kind of consider the fact
that the ROI on the brilliant Basics
isn't there so for instance you know
I've seen people so obsessed with XML
sitemaps that they skip out something
that's kind of really important so it's
having a commercial understanding of
what is absolutely required to make sure
that the website's in the best possible
place and will absolutely perform
Jerry white has over 20 years of
experience in the SEO industry working
at Brands and agencies including the BBC
just eat and rice at seven and you can
find them by searching Jerry white on
LinkedIn Jerry thanks so much for adding
your additional insights to SEO in 2023
my pleasure thank you
I've been your host David Bain and
you've been listening to SEO in 2023
additional insights a majestic series
that complements the original SEO in
2023 podcast video series and book find
out more over at SEO in 2023.com
[Music]

#Silvia Martin
[Uploading[Music]
Hi. Hello everyone. So I hope that
you're enjoying the conference. I am. I
think it's a lovely venue, amazing
people and brilliant talks. So yeah,
thank you Jagmore. It's
amazing. So let's start a little bit
about myself. So as they say, I'm Sylvia
Martin. I'm based in London and and I'm
independent SEO
consultant and I've been doing this job
for 10 years already. So I did work
inhouse then uh agency side and now I
have my own
consultancy and today I'm here because I
want to share with you how I'm
approaching this using internal links AI
for internal links.
So first thing we all know that uh
internal links are very important for
the site structure also for users has
many many benefits. It can also impact
um SEO performance and rankings.
Yeah. So all of these benefits and also
like they help users
navigation and they are often
overlooked but yeah they are really
great. So we need to work on
them. But one thing is they are kind of
time consuming. So especially if you do
it manually it can take forever. I
remember when I started working in SEO
10 years
ago we have this domain migration and we
have to do manually like copy paste the
content from one domain to another and
then add the links also manually.
I can tell you it was not easy task but
yeah it was how it was and at the time
also the man managers decided to do it
that way. So yeah, we did
it. But luckily nowadays we have more
tools, more ways of doing it and we have
AI, right? So this is a
survey from LinkedIn and
Microsoft and they say that 75% of
people they're already using AI in their
daily jobs, daily tasks. I don't know if
here in the audience are you already
using AI for some tasks?
Yeah. Okay. Great. Good to hear that.
Exciting times. Yes.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to
first talk about like some tools. I'm
going to talk about like three different
tools that you can use to approach this.
And and then I'm going to give you like
a little example, a quick one because
this is a short talk. It's just 10 15
minutes. So, I cannot really, you know,
go in depth. But um I would like to at
least help you out with some little
tools and some example how you can use
it to inspire
you. So let's start with the tools. If
you search for internal
um AI tools for
linking the AI tools for internal
linking, sorry. So if you look for it,
it's so much like 911 million
results. A
lot. Yeah.
So which one to use? Okay, so let's
start with you can start with AI
chatbots like um chat GPT or cloud. I
have to say I'm team chat at the moment.
So that's the one I'm going to use now
for the examples and for the talk, but
you can do it with different
ones. So one approach could be you can
use a GPT. So it could be like a good
first approach because it's something
that is already done. They have already
the some of the instructions. So you can
also understand how it works and help
you for inspiration for the future. So
that's one starting point the same you
can um search for it. There's many GBTs
for internal
linking but they have pros and cons. So
as I said I recommend it like for a
first step but you cannot depend on it
for your strategy for internal linking
because first is uh it's only available
on the paid tool and also like you don't
have the control of the GPT you cannot
uh customize it and also it depends on
open AI so maybe if something happens
you know you are dependent on it so the
same it's good to try but not to depend
on it you can also create your own one
and what is important of creating
prompts to um help you with internal
linking. And what is really important is
that is to ask the right question with
prompting you know you are going always
going to have the quality as the the
result. Okay. So the quality of the
results is only going to be uh related
to the quality of the input. Yeah,
that's what I wanted to say. So it's
very important to know how to do a
really good uh prompt and to define and
refine it. keep doing like when you
finish it you get your results if
there's no good enough you keep uh
refining refining
it okay so not only you can use that you
can have other tools so this one for
example the same if you're still using
this um AI bots like chat dippity API is
a community based uh prompt engineering
so you can see different prompts they
also have for internal linking and they
have like votes So they're helping you
to decide which one are better than
others and the same you can try
different ones and see which one are
good for you and give you the results
that you're
expecting. Other tool that you could use
is surfer SEO. So maybe you're using it
already for some content optimization.
So now they're starting to do also
internal link using AI and and is that
is very easy to to implement and they
give you suggestions and with a click
you can say yes I want these links or
not because maybe you decide they are
not the right links for for
you and another really good tool is in
links so I do like it for different
things so especially for the scalability
so you can do like the whole website
that's really good and also like it
helps you also like defining the
opportunities. It helps you like even it
can help you deploy all their internal
linkings. They can do it for you with
this um Java using JavaScript. So that's
really good too. And one of the benefits
is they're using semantic sect and
entities which is going to help you with
the relevance and the importance of the
internal
linking. Okay. So now we have like three
tools you can
use. So how we can use it
right? So I'm going to share my
process and what I do at the moment is
that so first because you can create
internal from different things. So what
is your objective right? What are you
trying to
achieve? Define that. Then you need to
think about the strategy. How are you
going to achieve that? Because AI tools
is that it's a tool. You still need to
do the whole uh process to have like
quality results and then experiment and
test.
Check are the results good enough or do
you need to refine? Do you need to
change your
approach? So let's start with the first
one. Define what you're trying to
achieve. So these are like some examples
to give you some the same inspiration.
So is it a new website and do you want
to create like the whole internal
linking at least the initial one or do
you want to create content hubs for
topical authority for different topics
or are you trying to do I don't know
like directing traffic from other pages
you know there's different use cases so
choose the one that you would like to to
pursue for example yeah like let's do
like a quick example
Let's think that we want to distribute
link equity, right? So then we have our
objective. So imagine like we have a few
pages that we would like to improve the
SEO
performance. So then how we do it? Okay,
we have the objective a strategy is
okay. So I'm going to select some pages
that they have the highest authority in
in your website because they have a lot
of backlinks pointing to them. And how
you can do that you can use search
console and check the most um internal
links. There's a place you can do that
or you can use other tools like majestic
or advanced web ranking or even srush.
They always they're going to give you
the list of your most internally linked
pages.
And then with that list then you create
another list that is the pages that you
want to link towards right the ones that
you want to boost um the performance the
SEO
performance and then you can use for
example
chatp and then so you go to chatp and
you tell them like your custom
instructions you want to create from
these pages select which one are the
more relevant also like you can tell
them try to look for semantically
relevant content
and then ask them to craft like you want
a table with the URLs with the anchor
test and also do you want them to create
the link like in a natural way. So you
can do all of these things and then uh
you can also add um Excel files to
it and then you see the results and then
sometimes you need to refine. So this is
an example. So I was doing that and I
asked to create the table as I was
mentioning but then I realized that some
of the URLs they were 301 redirects and
I say okay no I need to refine it. I
need to say I only need um 200 status
codes uh URLs because yeah is what you
need for the internal linking. So even
if you are using uh GPT or crafting your
own prompt, make sure that all the steps
and you keep refining it to have a good
quality result. Something that you can
use, your team can use or you can send
to developers are ready to implement.
But always verify at this point in time.
You cannot do this in autopilot,
autopilot, sorry. You still need to uh
verify everything. check that makes
sense and if not try other tools or try
other ways or refine it as I was
saying. So main takeaways from this
talk. So first of all yeah try different
tools test try different um AI tools and
then refine it and see what is is going
to work for you.
But if I will have only one main
takeaway from this talk, I would like
you to have this one. Experiment more
because it's really important like try
new things, trying new tools. We as
humans, we tend to always do the same
thing, the same process in the same way.
I think we should bring innovation to
our work and try new ways of doing
things. AI is here to help us. I don't
think it's here to replace us at the
moment. And as we said before, SEO is
not dead. It's just evolving. So what
you need to do is use the new tools that
are out there like AI tools and and be
more productive, do things in more
creative ways, and then you will have
better
results. And that's it for me. Yeah.
Thank you so much. Thank you.
[Applause]
[Music] Silvia Martin.txt…]()

#Anthony Barone
[Uploading Anthony BAnthony why are we even doing ASU well
that's what I'm here to tell you
mate
right so what's the what's the point
what's the objective of um doing SEO why
is it Devo that people engage it mate
SEO is one which has been around for a
while and it's got a bit of a
interesting reputation and I think um
it's right for some for to have that
reputation considering some of the
experience that people have had but for
SEO it is one it is a channel is online
digital Mar channel that you can control
your website is a platform that you can
control your soap box your opportunity
to talk about what it is that you do
sell products and be able to leverage
your website as a channel to drive more
traffic drive more users whatever the
business goals may be and earn traffic
from Google and and open up another
digital marketing channel when things
might be getting a bit expensive with
paid ads or social or some other you
know some other channels have dropped
off so SEO is a channel that you can
really push on and it's about as much
effort you know the more effort you put
into it the more quality um the more
that you work at it the better your
chances are to rank rank higher and get
more traffic from your website and get a
return on investment from your website
because people do spend a fair bit of
money on websites yeah so what would be
the typical difference between getting
better brand awareness via SEO or
getting leads via SEO because I guess
this are two radically different things
right so you can increase the the
traffic on your website thanks to good
SEO but for what purpose
so this is where it matches up with a
business goal so why are you doing what
you're doing so the goal for SEO if
someone comes to us is like all right I
need more leads I want to build I need
more money um my paid ads is too
expensive my competitors are beating me
so what is that why and then what are
the business goals and then SEO along
with any other marketing channel should
then answer those questions going all
right you want to make more money you
want to drive more leads you want to
drive more signups you need to sell more
uh demos whatever it may be you come in
up with the SEO strategy be like all
right this is what we need to do from an
SEO perspective to achieve those
business goals and I think brand SEO is
still import like is important and
people get caught up in the non-branded
side which you know that's what SEO is
like yeah we need to Target this keyword
so people can find us great but you also
in this day and age you also can't
forget about the brand side so it's it
sort of comes hand inand I would say
where you know traditionally the focus
will be non-branded people who don't
know who you are but are looking for
your products and service let's get them
in the door and then build that up but
still having you know a a bit of an eye
on your brand and what you can do brand
focused content multimedia imagery
videos pumping that sort of pumping that
sort of s as well because yeah it's not
like it was 5 10 15 years ago brand and
working with working with people and
people buy from other people so it's
it's a bit of a it's a bit of a mix but
in the early days skewed to getting it
unbranded getting people in who don't
know who you are and then building up
absolutely love it so to get get to be
tactical then what is an an Su supposed
to do like if for let's say I'm an Su I
want to move the needle to drive
business growth how do I actually make
that happen so you're speaking to a
client or you're a freelancer you're
consultant you're an agency you need to
have that initial Discovery call to
actually put yourself in the clients or
potential client shoes what are their
pain points what is their business is
their business actually suitable for SEO
do the do people who uh they want to buy
from them or or or engage with them
actually use their website actually use
SEO is SEO viable channel so some of
those questions you got to ask around
the business around their pain points
around how they actually um get clients
in the first place how the business
actually works because if you don't
understand that and you just try and um
shoehorn in an SEO strategy it's
probably not going to be that successful
because you haven't got an understanding
of of the business so the first point of
call is understanding the business
understanding the client understanding
their pain points understanding their
problems and understanding how it all
how it all works if you've got you know
good good positive answers and and and
you're comfor on those responses and you
go all right we can actually do
something here it's this this is viable
we've got we've got a bit of traction
then the next step would be what is the
current what is the current state of the
website what are you actually working
with what's the foundation of the site
how bad is a technical SEO or how good
is it cuz some some websites are fine
how's there content do they have any
content what page are they missing what
commercial opportunity should they be
targeting what should they be going for
what's their content resource then you
look at things like link building how's
their domain Authority how is how how
are they how how are they getting Links
at the moment are they getting links are
they getting that Authority through
where Google can see what see what
they're all about and you know getting
other websites to vouch for them then
you look at things like international
local SEO
that's the SEO bit of it and then the
third part of it would be the actual
workings of the company what's what's
what other channels are they um are they
doing that may compete or you might have
to take budget away to do an SEO
campaign What's the timing what's the
current climate of the business what's
the resource like do they have a Dev do
they have a retainer with somebody do
they have in in-house content writer are
they working with Partners so I think
there's three elements there of the
understanding the business understanding
their pain points understanding their
challenges and understanding if is the
right fit for them then you've got the
actual SEO elements so their website um
their current their current Foundation
what what's currently going on online
the thing that you're going to work on
to get more leads get more traffic get
more sales get more demos get more forms
whatever it may be and then the third
will be the actual resourcing budget
sort of sort of side that you need to
answer and the more you do that you're
giving yourself the better chance to try
and get a good fit for yourself but also
give the client an honest answer as to
if it's a good fit for them or not CU as
you start out an agency you probably
won't answer and ask those questions and
we all do it you try and sign the client
because you need the money in the early
days and you learn that as you grow but
trying to do your due diligence like
like you know um large companies do
saves you in the long run saves the
clients's money saves your time saves
your reputation um and it's just it it
traditionally um I theoretically should
work out better for you in the long run
that makes a lot of sense but it also
sounds like a lot of War so what does a
what does a typical SC team looks like
and here I'm interested to get your take
on because you're quite approaching this
from a SEO agency standpoint which is
awesome but what if I have an SEO team
in house like how does it typically look
like I think you mentioned like content
writer inh house so what are the so the
the skills I guess we get it because
that's basically what you just explained
but like how many efficient skills or
tail skills can what have and how many
different people you need in a team like
this to really have a proper SEO
strategy what what have you seen in the
space yeah so if you're looking up from
an in-house perspective this really gets
a bit tricky on the larger clients you
going to have so many stakeholders if
you're working for a Big Brand you're
going to have product you're going to
have brand you're going to have sales
you're going to have marketing you're
going to have the CFOs you're going to
have the B there's so many people
wanting to get their hands in so many
stakeholders um so many different sort
of working parts so typically in-house
for larger brins it takes a bit more
time to get things done you really have
to prove the business case you really
have to think in that sort of commercial
minded plus also understand the politics
and office of how things work to get
things done on the smaller side if
you've got like an SEO specialist in
house you're working for a small um say
you're an e-commerce brand Shopify for
example and you um got an inhouse SEO
specialist the things that they need to
be they're going to only be one person
so if you got an agency okay you got
more resource but that one person you're
going to have to work on priorities what
tools do they have are they equipped
with all the tools that they need yes
okay you've got the tools tick can they
actually how big are those technical SEO
issues now some of the SEO Specialists
we able to do a lot but others will need
Dev support are you supporting them with
devs do you have a retainer to support
that in-house so that one inhouse person
will need might need uh will need
support On Tools maybe support on devs
if you're undertaking lunch projects
you're definitely going to need support
on devs content sometimes SE Specialists
can write content so but that also takes
away time from maybe doing other things
so you may need a Content writer or at
least content resource whether that's
another person in the team or you work
with a freelancer so that SEO specialist
should be able to get within reason get
things done on the website like if
you're working with a shif fire
WordPress or something simple should be
able to get things done basic technical
SEO metadata internal links fixing up
Pages heading structure um setting up
you know blog category schema markup
doing doing a fair bid if they're well
versed in it doing research doing
competitor research keyword research
they should be able to handle all of
that it's when you get into the larger
larger side of projects or undertaking
oh we're undertaking a website redesign
and you throw that on SEO specialist
I'll probably scream so this is where a
qualified SEO specialist inhouse should
be able to do a fair bid and take that
um cover that but you're going to have
to think about supporting them one way
or another with potentially Dev Dev
support for lunch of projects um and
content support as well as the cost of
tools really so they're the three
they're the three things in like the
smaller smaller to medium if you're
hiring just a specific SE specialist um
in house so it feels like it might be a
better strategy to look at an external
agency who might already have all those
talents if you don't have the budget not
the resources not the time to build a
team on your own so I think we we
discussed uh before this go three
different types of agencies when you
when you're looking for a potential Su
agency to work with so can you can you
walk us through those different type of
agencies Anthony and explain us a bit
the the pros and cons of each yeah so in
my experience what what you've got is
you've got you've got agencies that just
think which is great if you're paying
for that and you just want a bit of
advice awesome great and but you need to
think about who's going to implement
that so what tends to happen is Brands
will come along and they'll go to an
agency and go yeah we want this ordered
or we want this or give us some advice
on that but then they never actually
they never actually do anything with it
it was just a waste of money agency's
happy because they got paid so there's
ones to just provide advice Consulting
and it now if you're paying for that all
right fine but if you're going to an
agency thinking they're going to do it
as well and they're just providing you
with some advice strike one next one is
like ones that have that strategic
mindset can you know provide that sort
of consultation yeah do this do that but
they actually execute which again that's
that's a tick because all right they're
thinking they're trying to think about
your business um they're trying to you
know from an SEO perspective oh this is
cool we need to fix this we need to fix
that and actually ideally go in and do
it right that's that's a positive um but
the the the one that the one that you
really want to try and push to be is
like once that think things
strategically and commercially as I
mentioned before think about your
business think about the goals how does
SEO strategy match up with the actual
business goals because that's what
you're here for otherwise um you know
we're not here to make the cool like
case studies for how technical this SEO
thing is that we fix for this client
that might look good in SEO circles but
the as an agency you want to make it so
that you are providing value to the
business to help them achieve their
goals so you've got the thinking you got
the doing but ones that drive value to
the business so commercially minded
strategically minded matching up the S
strategy with the business goals
actually executing that plan with either
the agency's team or the in-house team
actually doing it
but prioritization and importance to to
drive business value because there's no
point like oh I fixed one Link in the
footer like who cares great but what are
the what are the priorities what are the
things that will actually drive value
because they like fixing one Link in the
foot out great you fix technical SEO but
is that going to provide um 400 more
leads over the next 6 months probably
not what is overall technical SEO for
improving the Baseline and and health of
the site content strategy and creating
important pages so for AAS creating
Solutions Pages creating pages about the
features of the product creating a
knowledge base FAQ creating uh content
and opport and building opportunities
that will drive value to the business
they're the big things because seos tend
to get caught up in the manua of SEO and
unfortunately for seos SEO only care at
SEO the average the average business own
out knows what bu knows what SEO does or
should do but their whole point is I
need to make more money I need to make
more sales I need to make more forms I
need to leverage my website to make more
money and grow my business to achieve my
dreams and goals from an SEO perspective
it's like oh I did this really cool
thing that I could turn into an SEO C
study from SEO friends but where you
want is an agency that matches that up
the cool seo impactful seo strategy and
execution with business goals to drive
business value so that's where you want
to be you want to be that third one of
thinking doing and driving value so how
do you how do you go about making sure
that the SEO agency or SEO agencies that
you're talking to fall into one or the
other category of the S agencies because
I guess when you want to make a an
educated decision about hey okay well I
need right now is just a like a road map
a strategy that I can go towards the
first type of agency right um if I
actually need somebody to implement it
for me because I know what I want I know
what the business value will be behind
it I need expertise and like just
implementation I might want to go to the
other one and of course I'm going to
cover the last one he actually I need
somebody to do everything but also to
understand the business uh business
objectives behind it I mean you probably
want to make sure that you don't hire
the wrong resue agency here so how do
you make sure
that you're fighting the right agencies
what are the questions to ask how do you
make that happen hey if you're still
listening to this you probably find this
conversation interesting and that means
that others might too so the best way
you can support this podcast for free is
to leave us a five star review wherever
you're listening to this show this helps
the podcast more than I could say it
means other seos can learn and get
access to our amazing guests and that
will mean the world to me all right with
that being said back to the
episode so if you're looking for the
first one the ones that think are you
set up correctly so if you have that
in-house team you just need someone to
give you additional bandwidth and give
you additional strategy that's fine so
you want to look look at their results
their wins their case studies you want
to and case studies you know good and
bad you want to be able to look at
Google reviews you want to be able to
look at asking them for recommendations
from current clients we've had that
where people ask us who are your current
clients let's talk to them what have you
done before do you have experience in
the space um so there's some of the
there's some of the things case studies
talk to current clients check out their
actual team and size of the business
does do they have the team that will
actually match the size of your site
what you're asking and what your goals
are if you're a 30 million pound
business with 60% of your um 60% of your
Rev on your website are you going to
give it to a oneman band Pro probably
not so it's just being able to
understand that context um of your
business but also what the agency can do
um Awards you know okay they do provide
some value but you do tend to take some
of them with a greater salt so you
really want to see the results um you
asking for some clients they've worked
on try and check the websites themselves
see if you can do some digging is to
have those numbers um have those numbers
improved so trying to trying to sus them
out from from that point of view um how
experienced is the team how big are the
how big are the budgets because you
don't want to miss expectation you don't
want to miss the expectations there as
well um so there's some of the things
that you should be looking at in terms
of what to ask an agency and just try
and probe them a bit you'd probably also
ask them uh about experience in the
sector now not every agent is going to
have experience in every sector but it's
just then trying to make that educated
decision of do I trust the do I trust
the team do I trust the work that
they've done in other spaces to then um
work with them in this space because you
could get the best SEO agency but and
they might not have worked in this space
but if your team have got the experience
in this really Niche sort of business
area well then you can work together and
that's how how it how it should be so
you can really Probe on a few things but
trying not to get caught up in the in
the vanity and just try to trying to ask
them the hard questions and trying to
sus out as best you can um with the work
with the work that they've done in the
past or or currently I love this um so
once you've made your selection and you
found you found the one right how do you
make sure that is is for people who are
looking to walk with agencies or have
walked but got burnt and like are trying
to do it again but in the right in the
right way how do you actually hold
actually two things how do you hold the
SE agency accountable for the results
that they provide and they get not only
right also the process communication and
so on but I'm also thinking right now
your team like how do you make sure that
you hold accountable everybody to say
hey okay yeah the agency deliver didn't
deliver on that that's the foral
consultant speaking here same time the
client took like two month uh more than
expected to deliver like XYZ report
whatsoever so how do you how do you
manage that the ongoing communication
accountability and making sure that you
all go in the right direction yeah so
the first step is probably that um at
the start trying to do due due diligence
and setting the tone for the start
setting expectations from the start
communication is key so any agency
should be open and upfront with what
they are doing whether it's monthly
reports fortn nightly meetings fortnite
dashboard whatever they whatever they
however they are communicating as best
they're communicating and clearly to
detail to the client what is going on
and what they're doing but matching up
that report and and their call and and
what they want with the actual business
goals there's no point reporting on like
oh five people went to this blog when
they need to sell more of X so that's
where you want to try and match the
communication with the business goals
and tell them exactly what they need to
hear because education is still growing
in the SEO space and I appreciate
marketing managers uh have to cover a
fair bit so some might be stronger on
SEO than others but they've got a lot on
their plate when they're working for
businesses and they can't cover
everything so you was it agency trying
to keep it as clear and as simple as
possible and matching up with the goals
and important things that matter to that
marketing manager to that founder to
that CMO whoever it may be to make their
lives easier so that communication uh is
key clients will will will have a
clients will hold you accountable
because they're paying the bills but you
as an agency should hold them
accountable because your reputation is
on the line you signed them you know um
they've believed in you you've sold to
them they've belied beli in your
strategy I hope so and you haven't you
know uh haven't robbed them but they
believe in your strategy they believe in
what you do they believe in your team
you believe that you can provide results
holding the client accountable because
if the client is limiting you to what um
limiting limiting your ability to get
things done well that impacts results
and the client typically will turn
around and say Hey you haven't done
anything and this is where as an agency
as you grow like and you get older and
you're in business for a bit longer you
your spine does
develop and then you have more
confidence to say look hey no this is
what happened this here are all the
receipts here's the evidence you didn't
do XYZ and you know people might not be
typical um and it might not be something
that people like to do and yeah granted
but it's hard to do it's like oh the
clients pay me and but if they are
impacting your results because they're
not getting things
done you got to call them out on that
and there may be various reasons they
don't have the resource
they don't have the the budget something
they're buying another business so re
money's gone to that so but it's having
that open Communication in a Frank way
to be like look what's going on with the
business we haven't heard from you from
X we haven't got this done we can only
do we're trying to provide value to your
business through SEO we need XYZ done so
we can do this more what and you have
that Frank conversation with them and
usually you know you're coming out from
a point of I'm trying to help you we're
here you're paying us cuz we're the
experts and we're trying to help you
grow this channel so you can do more of
what you wanted to do and sell more and
make more money so it's having that
Frank conversation which they should
they should appreciate but you as an
agency need to do because sometimes
agencies will get a bit scared and
they'll just oh or agencies completely
forget and account managers change and
the client forgets and you forget and
this just they just get invoiced or it
happens so that's where that open open
and clear communication and it is
ke so putting myself in the shoes of the
agencies now
how do you manage expectations and the
reason I'm asking this is um kind of
twofold it's like what's reasonable to
promise and guarantee as an AC agency
what is not but also that's interesting
because we have a we have a foot in Two
Worlds the podcast world and the SEO
world and it's very funny because in the
podcast World things take time
especially if you're starting out a
podcast now it can be very well
accelerated if you leverage a a platform
that has a a built-in growth algorithm
typically Tik Tok Instagram YouTube
shorts whatsoever you take s of the
podcast put them into those machines and
you like make most out of the growth um
algorithm building those um those tools
I have the feeling that that in SEO you
kind of have the same dilemma because
SEO is the long-term play if you go for
sea you can have very fast results at a
different cost it's some different
strategy but so looking purely at
se my understanding is that things take
time but then how do you manage
expectations and how much should you
wait now as a client before you say hey
we ar getting the result that we want
how do you typically manage all that so
that's where again the due diligence
comes into to try and understand their
goals understand the resource understand
what you're working with nothing of
value was built in a day and I know in
this High Time preference world where
everything everyone wants everything now
now now and especially when you've got
uh Google ads and you've got social you
can go viral over one post and things
can happen overnight anybody who's built
a business worth anything typically has
been slaving away for a fair while and
those who have worked hard for years and
years and years to earn their way to the
top of Google are all of a sudden not
not going to give that away
alternatively if it was easy to get to
the top of Google everyone would be
doing it and there' be no value in it
anyway and Google wouldn't be a trillion
dollar company so the way you try and
manage manage the expectations is
understanding the pl understanding the
website you're working with
understanding the client understanding
the goals and what you can feasibly do
with the resource time budget and actual
ability to get things done you could
have the biggest goals in the world but
if the client has to sign off on
everything and there's 40 million
stakeholders and nothing ever gets done
you could be sitting there in 15
meetings trying to organize a meta title
and you and you said to them hey we need
to increase sales by 400% but they can't
even they kind of an agree on or a few
words nothing's ever going to get done
so you do go through this learning
process as you as you go through the
agency but I would be like start with
their business goals understand their
resource be honest with it be honest
with budgets this is what your company
can do what can you do on the client
side and you work on a priority priority
basis to try and move the needle the
things that we'll say to clients in
terms of things that they should cuz
people people get caught up in oh my
mosda went down two points and my toxic
score is terrible no one cares like
fundamentally they're third party tools
if you can see on your Google analytics
or your Shopify that you're making money
and traffic's coming through and your
keywords are ranking but MOS went down
two points what you don't believe what
your eyes see you don't believe the
money that's coming through the account
so that happens too so I would be like
what's the base you take a baseline of
where you're at take a baseline of what
you've achieved and you got to take and
SEO isn't in a vacuum either because
there's external factors that uh occur
so what's happening now is that people
are trying to compare their 2024 numbers
to 2020 and 2021 like oh we were flying
in the co times yeah because mate every
was locked down they only had the
website so it's like it's a different
world because a lot of people think that
it's in a vacuum it's like mate no one
no one had a choice in 2020 you're
locked up so of course your website
numbers are going to be higher and it's
not like you know there's external
factors there so setting a baseline um
with context organic traffic keywords
you're ranking for what keywords you
want to rank for non-branded clicks
non-branded impressions branded branded
search how many how many how many forms
you're getting through the website
currently what are your other channels
doing cuz PPC will affect SEO and vice
versa what's the current um what are the
top products that are making money
what's what's the channel making uh
what's SEO or your channels making
through Revenue uh over 6 to 12 months
take that Baseline and then you just try
and do you go all right we want to very
general because if you put any um if you
try and guarantee anything in SEO
something will screw you whether it's
Google or clients or yourself or team or
God who knows so what tends to happen is
seos will do a forecast based off um
your Google search console data as best
you can but again it's just a forecast
things change so you can use you can use
that to be able to be like all right we
want to improve it by X or Y but we
usually tend to keep it simple this was
your traffic when we started the
campaign these were your keywords that
you're ranking for and your rankings
when you started the campaign this was
your money these were your top products
these are your top performing pages and
you track that over the long term if
your website's in a decent shape you
could actually see results relatively
quickly and you get things moving yes
SEO is a long-term game to earn your way
to the top 100% but there are some low
hanging fruits some quick wins if you
are both for line if the client in the
agency are like hum you can really get
things done quickly and you see results
in in a couple of months but in that
long term to build this as a sustainable
channel for the long term where you're
earning traffic and beating competitors
where you can potentially
reduce PBC spend and shift it to other
keywords that competitors aren't bidding
on and you can dominate that then yeah
it will take you know it's a longterm
sort of um long-term sort of viewpoint
wow this is golden so a um a quick
question that I like to be Punchy what's
the number one mistake that people make
when it comes to choosing an
agency not diving deeper uh the the one
the why of doing SEO and getting caught
up in the Glamour and the um yeah not
digging deeper into like like I said the
results the case studies probing into
the actual clientele and experience
because people that's why awards are
there they get sucked in and they're
great as like you know as tools to to
mark yourself um and and misaligned
expectations and not doing enough due
diligence I know there's three there but
there's there's there
um yeah there's there's a fair bit there
but you want to why are you do an SEO
aligning expectations being honest with
the resource um and then being able to
probe that agency into do I believe do I
believe that this agency can do right by
me with the budget with the resource
with the time with the experience with
what I want to achieve love this and a
last one for you and and it's not um I
guess it's a bit of a curveball is AI
going to replace you agencies AR and AI
will replace those who are not as good
as they should be AI is you know we'll
use it we'll use it ni obviously we'll
use it to speed up your work you'll use
it to um use certain tools to get things
done quicker um at a decent quality
people you know use it to ideate content
don't use it to write it um I think AI
will take I think there still needs to
be a human brain behind SEO and actually
understanding the business and actually
talking human to human um but AI
definitely is going to make redundant
some uh either improve some or make some
tools redundant um will hit a few of the
agencies who probably should have been
gone a long time ago um and not just in
SEO in other other areas as well um but
yeah I think AI those who AI will beat
some SEO agencies but those AI will
really beat uh AI will really help those
agencies who know how to use it and beat
Anthony thank you so much for coming on
SE gurus if people want to find out more
about you or studio hulk where should
they go uh hit me up on LinkedIn at
Anthony Barone or hit us up at study
hawk.
co.uk fantastic we'll put all the links
in the description thanks Anthony thank
very much mate
cheers hey thank you so much for making
it to the end uh for more content
updates visit our website at GHA
podcast.com and don't forget to connect
with me on LinkedIn for more tips and
insights on SEO see you in the next
episodearone.txt…]()

#Will Kennard[UWhat's up everyone? Today I'm going to
be going over how to build a quick SEO
content strategy around a specific
keyword in about 2 minutes. So, this is
where AI tools have made this a whole
lot easier because I just sent one of
these off to my clients and basically I
needed to do it for myself because I am
looking into creating more content and I
want to rank higher for the keyword PPC
advertising. I realized that in a world
of AI getting recognized around the
keyword PPC advertising will be really
important for my business long-term. So,
I need to start building out more
content related to PPC advertising. Now,
I do plenty of Google Ads tutorials and
things like that, but what I'm trying to
do is find more of these long-tail
keywords so that when a dentist or an
agency or a plastic surgeon in this case
or physical therapist is looking for
advertising, paid advertising, PPC
advertising type articles, they're able
to find them on my website and hopefully
I can drive some more clients. So, what
we're going to be doing today is quickly
going to free tool. So, you can use any
free tool that you want. KeywordTool.io
is completely free and gives you a ton
of keywords, which is why I like a lot.
Gives us 346 total keywords just on the
Google side, just for the Google search
engine. My content plan is also going to
be part of YouTube. So, my goal is also
ranking on YouTube as well. Any of these
other ones really going to be redundant
when it comes to Google and YouTube for
the most part unless it's product-based
on Amazon. So, we're going to take PPC
advertising and all you have to do is
copy all of all of these here. Now,
before that, you can click load more, go
all the way to the bottom. We have 200
total now. So, these are plenty of
keywords, honestly. I don't need 200
keywords, I just need a set of keywords.
So, what you do now is you're going to
go back over to Claude and I pasted that
content here. So, just right here, we're
just going to paste that content. So,
paste all of those keywords in there.
What we could do next is I can go over
to YouTube and do the same exact thing.
So, if we go scroll to the very top and
we actually get up there and click on
YouTube, then we're going to find a
bunch of PPC advertising
searches specifically for YouTube. This
one only has 80, so probably a little
bit better to use, but we're going to
copy all of these, put all of these here
as well, and and leave those right
there. So, 80 keywords might actually be
better than having 200. And then last
but not least, we're going to open up
the Google Keyword Planner. This is
where we actually get some average
monthly search data, some bid ranges,
and typed in PPC advertising. We're just
going to do the top 500 that we can
find. This is based on relevance. So,
we're going to copy all of these now.
And basically, what we're doing is we're
just saying, "Here's a bunch of keywords
that are recognized by Google, by
keyword tools. You know, these are the
things people are actually typing in."
What we need to do is go from keyword to
content plan. So, we copy all of this,
say, "These are my current PPC
advertising blogs. I want to create more
blogs not specific to Google Ads or Meta
Ads. Can you build me a content plan
based on these keywords?" So, all of
this, basically, one shot, and we got a
Surfside PPC content plan in Microsoft
Excel format. And now, if we go through
it, I have a publishing calendar now for
the next 12 weeks. The next 3 months, I
have one article
article, one video that I can do for
each of these. And what I always say is
like, with the SEO and with the content
strategy, your goal is essentially
saying, "How do I do things consistently
where I'm actually targeting specific
keywords, specific pillars, clusters?"
Which, if you're not familiar with
pillars and clusters, essentially,
cluster one this says mechanics. You
know, this is basically kind of your
main main overview type thing. Strategy
and execution. So, strategies,
checklist, examples, mistakes, holiday
funnel, [snorts]
email list, another mistake. So,
probably just can do a few of these. But
ultimately, what I can do, and this is
nine benefits of PPC advertising. What
these are ultimately targeting when
you're looking at the keyword pool, is
you're saying, "I'm going to target PPC
advertising. What is PPC advertising?
Meaning, definition, what is You don't
need separate articles for all this.
These are assigned to the specific post.
The online advertising acronym PPC
stands for." So, this is in your
glossary. Define PPC advertising,
glossary. How PPC advertising works. So,
all of these over here are essentially
the different articles I'm writing. PPC
sales funnel, PPC for doctors. This is
something I already had. These are ones
that are just popular. PPC for mortgage,
PPC for lawyers. So, you can either go
into Cloud and say, "Please give me a
content plan." For me, I've been doing
content long enough that really I just
need, "Give me some topics." So, where
my main starting point as we did this is
going to be, you know, looking at their
actual publishing calendar. And I'm
going to create a video, What is PPC
advertising? This is something I
actually created a video for years ago,
and it got a decent amount of views. I
had a video page on my website. Since
then, my website's kind of been wiped
and I've switched platforms and a lot of
issues with content on my website in
itself. So, I'm basically redoing and
revamping my SEO strategy, which has
been pretty terrible for the beginning
of the year. So, almost feels like I'm
starting from scratch a little bit. So,
from the PPC advertising perspective, I
mean, I know I already have some type of
foothold in PPC advertising companies,
but it's not something where I'm ranking
high for any of these keywords. So,
where do we start? We start by creating
these pages and putting together pillars
and clusters. And over time, my plan is
to release PPC advertising tutorials and
a free PPC advertising course that's
essentially, here's everything you need
to know about PPC advertising and how to
get started with it. So, this is
essentially our quick SEO content plan.
Like, how to create one very quick using
Google Keyword Planner, AI, and keyword
research tools. So, you can do this
completely free. I didn't use any paid
research tools. Copy and paste all the
information there. Get yourself a nice
content plan. What I really like is the
pillars and clusters. But, with the
content plan, you basically have, here's
all of the different things you should
create. 25 total articles. So, if I do
these 25 articles and I get them all
ranked by next year, there's a good
chance that I'm ranking for these
keywords and all I have to do is go back
in and update all of my content again.
So, if you have any questions about
this, please leave in the comments
section. Main thing actually is looking
at these URL slugs. I think this would
look really good creating all of these
because essentially it's going to answer
all the questions that people have and
it's going to help me rank for a lot of
these keywords and you know, essentially
the goal is long-term. I have 25
articles about PPC advertising then when
I create a page PPC advertising agency
and I try to, you know, rank for that
keyword, it gives me a much better shot
doing that long-term. So again, if you
have any questions about this, please
leave in the comment section. Thanks for
watching my video today and make sure
you subscribe to the Surfside PPC
YouTube channel.ploading Will Kennard.txt…]()



